# Tips and Other Settings

## Loading Kernel Modules

Most Linux kernel modules get automatically loaded as-needed but there
are a some situations where this doesn't work. Problems can arise if
there is boot-time dependencies are sensitive to exactly when the module
gets loaded. Module auto-loading can be broken all-together if the
operation requiring the module happens inside of a container. `iptables`
and other netfilter features can easily encounter both of these issues.
To force a module to be loaded early during boot simply list them in a
file under `/etc/modules-load.d`. The file name must end in `.conf`.

```sh
echo nf_conntrack > /etc/modules-load.d/nf.conf
```

These files are processed early during the boot sequence. This means
that updating `modules-load.d` via cloud-config will only take effect on
the next boot unless the `systemd-modules-load` service is also
restarted:

```yaml
#cloud-config

write_files:
  - path: /etc/modules-load.d/nf.conf
    content: nf_conntrack

coreos:
  units:
    - name: systemd-modules-load.service
      command: restart
```

### Loading Kernel Modules with Options

This example cloud-config excerpt loads the `dummy` network interface module
with an option specifying the number of interfaces the module should create
when loaded (`numdummies=5`):

```yaml
#cloud-config

write_files:
  - path: /etc/modprobe.d/dummy.conf
    content: options dummy numdummies=5
  - path: /etc/modules-load.d/dummy.conf
    content: dummy

coreos:
  units:
    - name: systemd-modules-load.service
      command: restart
```

After this cloud-config is processed, the dummy module is loaded into the
kernel, and five dummy interfaces are added to the network stack.

Further details can be found in the systemd man pages:
[modules-load.d(5)](http://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/modules-load.d.html)
[systemd-modules-load.service(8)](http://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd-modules-load.service.html)
[modprobe.d(5)](http://linux.die.net/man/5/modprobe.d)

## Tuning sysctl Parameters

The Linux kernel offers a plethora of knobs under `/proc/sys` to control
the availability of different features and tune performance parameters.
For one-shot changes values can be written directly to the files under
`/proc/sys` but persistent settings must be written to `/etc/sysctl.d`:

```sh
echo net.netfilter.nf_conntrack_max=131072 > /etc/sysctl.d/nf.conf
sysctl --system
```

Some parameters, such as the conntrack one above, are only available
after the module they control has been loaded. To ensure any modules are
loaded in advance use `modules-load.d` as described above. A complete
cloud-config using both would look like:

```yaml
#cloud-config

write_files:
  - path: /etc/modules-load.d/nf.conf
    content: |
      nf_conntrack
  - path: /etc/sysctl.d/nf.conf
    content: |
      net.netfilter.nf_conntrack_max=131072

coreos:
  units:
    - name: systemd-modules-load.service
      command: restart
    - name: systemd-sysctl.service
      command: restart
```

Further details can be found in the systemd man pages:
[sysctl.d(5)](http://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/sysctl.d.html)
[systemd-sysctl.service(8)](http://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd-sysctl.service.html)

## Adding Custom Kernel Boot Options

The CoreOS bootloader parses the configuration file `/usr/share/oem/grub.cfg`,
where custom kernel boot options may be set.

### Enable CoreOS Autologin

To login without a password on every boot, edit `/usr/share/oem/grub.cfg`
to add the line:

```
set linux_append="coreos.autologin=tty1"
```

### Enable Systemd Debug Logging

Edit `/usr/share/oem/grub.cfg` to add the following line, enabling systemd's
most verbose `debug`-level logging:

```
set linux_append="systemd.log_level=debug"
```

### Mask a Systemd Unit

Completely disable the `systemd-networkd.service` unit by adding this line to
`/usr/share/oem/grub.cfg`:

```
set linux_append="systemd.mask=systemd-networkd.service"
```

## Adding Custom Messages to MOTD

When logging in interactively, a brief message (the "Message of the Day (MOTD")
reports the CoreOS release channel, version, and a list of any services or
systemd units that have failed. Additional text can be added by dropping text
files into `/etc/motd.d`. The directory may need to be created first, and the
drop-in file name must end in `.conf`. CoreOS versions 555.0.0 and greater
support customization of the MOTD.

```sh
mkdir -p /etc/motd.d
echo "This machine is dedicated to computing Pi" > /etc/motd.d/pi.conf
```

Or via cloud-config:

```yaml
#cloud-config

write_files:
  - path: /etc/motd.d/pi.conf
    content: This machine is dedicated to computing Pi
```

Note: The MOTD is regenerated by a script once per minute to ensure the list of
failed units remains reasonably current. This behavior may change in the future.
